The draft legislation on creed and religion
that is currently being negociated by Parliament
is a threat for Catholics as well as all the other existing religions in Vietnam.
By avoiding to acknowledge
the legal existence of religious organizations,
this law stands in direct contradiction
with the religious freedom
ensured by the Vietnamese Constitution.
The authorities are therefore disrespecting
this fundamental law
and I invite Mr Mélenchon,
who is a friend of all communists
to make a call to Vietnam in order to tell them
they are disrespecting the Constitution
This is extremely serious, Mr Mélenchon
My dear colleague, I will always agree with you
when it comes to defending freedom
especially freedom of conscience,
including, of course, religious freedom, since this idea,
called secularism, was born in my homeland
Now, Sir, this is my turn to ask you
whether you would say the same
concerning religious freedom in Qatar, Saudi Arabia or Bahrain
and the other countries that we never hear about here,
whereas it only takes one communist or leftist minister
for us to hear for hours about outcries of all sorts.
Some are indeed relevant, but others are not
if it weren't for propaganda efforts.